---
layout: pagecollection
title: 05 - Convolutional Neural Networks
collection: StanfordCS231n
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Convolutional layer
Try and explicitly maintain spatial structure. Based on the hierarchical nature of human vision, where low-level features such as edges, lines, corners, etc. are identified, and then higher level features are constructed, and so on.

Now known as ConvNets, due to their ubiquity and success (face recognition, autonomous vehicles, medical image diagnosis, etc.) in recent years. 

We maintain structure by using filters, which are an $$a \times a \times depth$$ matrix. The depth is the depth of the image. We slide these filters across the image, and then take the dot product. This will then produce a single value which we add to our "activation map". 

We can use any number of filters, which each produce an activation map, so we can stack these activation maps depth-wise. So a ConvNet is a series of convolutional layers and activation functions.

The "stride" is the number of pixels which we slide over with our filter. Out put size is: $$\frac{N - F}{stride+1}$$, where $$N$$ is the height and width of the image, and $$F$$ is the filter size.

We can use zero-padding which adds zeros to the edges of the image. This preserves the image size in the activation map, which is useful because it prevents the network from reducing the image size too rapidly through the layers.

## Pooling layer
Makes the representations smaller and more manageable, by _spatially_ downsampling. So input depth will be the same as the output depth. Max pooling, for example, takes an $$n \times n$$ filter, and slides it over the layer, outputting the maximum value of the filter.

It's not common to use zero-padding, since we are looking to reduce the layer size. Typically we use $$2 \times 2$$ filters, with a stride of 2, or (less commonly) $$3 \times 3$$ filters, also with a stride of 2. 

## Notes
ResNets are currently the state of the art in CNNs and are the default choice in using ConvNets in practice.

## Additional material
[Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs / ConvNets)](http://cs231n.github.io/convolutional-networks/)